### Discussion questions


- What's the difference between null and undefined?
 - Undefined is a primitive (type itself; every undefined is the same as every other) and means no value has been assigned
 - Null is an object (typeof null = [object]), and has to be assigned
- What is a value? What is an expression? What is a statement?
 - A value is an expression that can't be evaluated further (1 + 2 can be evaluted to 3)
 - An expression is a JavaScript statement or value
 - A statement is an individual Javascript command to be evaluated
- What are the different parts of a function?
 - Functions represent computations to be performed. The simplest function is function() {}
 - Function is a reference type - each instance of a function has its own 'reference' or identity
 - Functions have arguments and a body of statements. One important statement is the return value
- What is the difference between call-by-value and call-by-sharing?
 - call-by-value: when you write a function that works on an expression, JS evaluates the expressions before giving the statement to the function
 - call-by-sharing: this is to do with reference types, which refer to the exact same (serial number) variable. when a function works on a reference type it passes the reference location
 - you can do call-by-sharing by passing an 'identity type' - array or object - into a function
 - 'call-by-reference' seems to be a more common term for a similar (?) idea
- What is function scope?
 - Scope refers to how variables are available in functions
 - 'dictionary' or 'environment'
- What is a free variable?
 - A 'free variable' is a variable that is not bound within the function. Typically we bind variables in functions by passing in an argument with the same name. 
 - 'free variables' are inherited from parent scope
- What is the difference between a function and a closure?
 - A 'pure function' has no free variables; a _closure_ contains one or more free variables
- How are values evaluated in lexical scoping?
 - Inner functions contain the scope of outer functions
- What is global scope?
 - JS creates a default environment with some useful libraries. In browsers the window is the global, as I understand it
- What are two ways to name a variable?
 - var Pi = 3.14159265;
 - or by just assigning a value Pi = 3.14159265; (this is called IIFE)
- Let vs Var
 - _let_ is creating a variable visible in scope
 - _var_ is creating a variable in an existing scope
- What is the difference between binding a function to a variable, naming a function, and declaring a function?
 - affects scope - binding to a variable means it's only available after,
 - naming makes it available everywhere (ala libraries)
- What are the two types of higher order functions? What's the difference between them?
 - a higher-order function is a function that takes a function as an argument or gives one as a return
 - a combinator is a higher-order function that take only functions as arguments and return a function
 - a function decorator is a higher-order function that takes a function as an argument, and returns a _variation_ of the given function
- What is `this`? How does it behave differently between methods and functions?
 - This has something to do with lexical scope. ??
 - this is bound to context
- What is `arguments`?
 - A built-in binding, like _this_, that contains a list of all the argument names in a function's environment. It looks like an array to me but apparently it's not. You can iterate through it.


### Exercises

- Write a function that will calculate the [fibonacci sequence](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number) to a requested term, using only functions (no looping constructs) with recursion.

```
function calculateFibonacci(x) {
  if (x < 2){
    return x;
  } else {
    return calculateFibonacci(x - 2) + calculateFibonacci(x - 1);
  }
}
```

- Write a function that adds a variable defined in the global scope to a variable defined in parent scope to a variable defined in local scope, using partial application.
- Write a function decorator that takes two arrays them to the decorated function as a single plain old javascript object.
- Write a function decorator that concatenates the items of a function that returns a list of strings.
- Create a function that takes a list of numbers and returns a function that takes a single number and returns the original list with each item multiplied by the number.
- Write a function based on variadic that manipulates elements in the DOM
- Write a function that retrieves something from Local Storage and `tap` it two different ways.
- Attach an event handler to an element and trigger it.


### The project

Vote on what project you would like to do. The options are listed below, with a short summary of why we might/might not want to do it. To vote, add your name as a bullet point under the description. Feel free to vote 2 or 3 times. Please have you votes in by next Wednesday. Also email me your votes, in case your github change doesn't work.

### Extra reading

Again, just glance at these.

- [Currying](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Currying) is a strategy for partial application.
- [let](http://stackoverflow.com/a/11444416/1467342)
- [Evaluation strategies](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evaluation_strategy)

There are tons of awesome built-in apis in client and server side javascript. Skim the following pages:

- [Web workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/Performance/Using_web_workers)
- [AJAX](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/XMLHttpRequest)
- [DOM](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model)
    - [Promises](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
    - [Events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event)
    - [Elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element)
    - [Window](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window)
    - [Sockets](http://socket.io/)

Check out these functional programming javascript libraries briefly:

- [functional](http://osteele.com/sources/javascript/functional/)
- [ap](https://github.com/substack/node-ap)
- [Lemonad](https://github.com/fogus/lemonad)
